# Naming Conventions

Each Node (peripheral or bus) exposes three distinct name categories.

### 1. BASE_NAME

- Identifies the type or family of the node.
- Enforced as UPPERCASE from the configuration in order to implement robust checks.
- Composed of every character except "_".

Examples:

- `TIM` for a timer peripheral
- `DR4CH` for a ddr memory interface

Used to group multiple instances of the same kind and to create the correct objects inside "factories".
Think of it like the "type" of a particular node.

### 2. FULL_NAME 

- Specified in the `RANGE_NAMES` in the `.csv` files to refer to a particular istance of peripheral or bus 
- Unique name of the node within the global system.
- Duplicate FULL_NAMEs are forbidden.
- Case insensitive. 
- Uses the format:

        {BASE_NAME}_{id}

Where `id` is a numeric identifier (used as channel number for DDR4, ex. DDR4CH_0).
`id` can be omitted if there aren't multiple istances of the same "FULL_NAME" in the configuration.

Since the "BASE_NAME" part extracted from a "FULL_NAME" is internally enforced as an UPPERCASE string from the
configuration flow, the "FULL_NAME" specified in the .csv config files of buses is case insensitive but since
FULL_NAMEs are assumed to be used in the generation of every file in the configuration, keep in mind
that when specifying a particular node with a FULL_NAME, that name will be used to refer to that particular node in the context of the various configuration files (as it is, or as a prefix/suffix based on the particular configuration file).
So every "sw" or "hw" file that depends on generated files, will be influenced by the particular FULL_NAME given
to a node in the configuration flow.

for example:
    specifying "HlsControl" as a FULL_NAME leads to these kind of definitions in the HAL header
    (keep in mind that this potentially apply to all configuration files generated)

    #define _peripheral_HlsControl_start  0x0000000000040000
    #define _peripheral_HlsControl_end    0x0000000000050000


### 3. RANGE_NAME

- Identifies a specific address range belonging to a node.
- Formed from the node’s FULL_NAME plus a range index:
    `{FULL_NAME}_range_{id}`
- If a node has a single address range, its RANGE_NAME equals its FULL_NAME.
- Examples:
    - `TIM_1_range_0`
    - `TIM_1_range_1`
- RANGE_NAMEs provide fine-grained reachability control; buses may reach some ranges but not others.

The name is unfortunate because they COULD be different from the `RANGE_NAMES` expressed in a `.csv` file (for example if a node FULL_NAME is configured with multiple address ranges), they are
internally generated by the configuration flow and kept inside `Addr_Range` objects.
Their only use for now is inside the file generated by `config_dump` file, to get a more precise view of the
address ranges each bus can reach.

